CONTRIBUTING.md: Add PR closing policy (#11596)
python/typeshed: CONTRIBUTING.md

links to online documentation or to the implementation of the code
you are changing.

As the author of the pull request, it is your responsibility to make
sure all CI tests pass and that any feedback is addressed. The typeshed
maintainers will probably provide some help and may even push changes
to your PR to fix any minor issues, but this is not always possible.
If a PR lingers with unresolved problems for too long, we may close it

> (see below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
([see below](#closing-stale-prs)).
```

  It should be valid Markdown, be comprehensive, read like a changelog entry,
  and assume that the reader has no access to the diff.
* Delete branches for merged PRs (by maintainers pushing to the main repo).

### Marking PRs as "deferred"

> We use the ["deferred" label](https://github.com/python/typeshed/labels/deferred)

Reviewer 2: I don't want to commit us to doing this for _anything_ that might be blocked

```suggestion
We sometimes use the ["deferred" label](https://github.com/python/typeshed/labels/deferred)
```

to mark PRs and issues that we'd like to accept, but that are blocked by some
external factor. Blockers can include:

- An unambiguous bug in a type checker (i.e., a case where the
  type checker is not implementing [the typing spec](https://typing.readthedocs.io/en/latest/spec/index.html)).
- A dependency on a typing PEP that is still under consideration.
- A pending change in a related project, such as stub-uploader.

PRs should only be marked as "deferred" if there is a clear path towards getting

> the blocking issue resolved. If a PR depends on a more amorphous change, such as a type
> system change that has not yet reached the PEP stage, it should instead be closed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the blocking issue resolved within a reasonable time frame. If a PR depends on
a more amorphous change, such as a type system change that has not yet reached
the PEP stage, it should instead be closed.
```

Maintainers who add the "deferred" label should state clearly what exactly the
blocker is, usually with a link to an open issue in another project.

### Closing stale PRs

To keep the number of open PRs manageable, we may close PRs when they have been

> open for too long. Specifically, we close open PRs that either have failures in CI
> or unaddressed feedback and that have not seen any activity in three months.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
open for too long. Specifically, we close open PRs that either have failures in CI,
serious merge conflicts or unaddressed feedback, and that have not seen any
activity in three months.
```

We want to maintain a welcoming atmosphere for contributors, so use a friendly
message when closing the PR. Example message:

    Thanks for your contribution to typeshed! Unfortunately, this PR still
    has some unresolved problems and has not seen activity for three months.
    Therefore, I am closing this PR. If you are still interested, feel free to

>     reopen this PR (or make a new one) and make changes.

Reviewer 2: Do contributors have the ability to reopen PRs that have been closed by maintainers? I'm not sure

Reviewer 2: Here you go:
- https://github.com/srittau/python-asserts/pull/101

Reviewer 2: Seems like it is indeed impossible for contributors without write access to reopen a PR if a maintainer has closed it: https://github.com/srittau/python-asserts/pull/101#issuecomment-1997618854

```suggestion
    Therefore, I am closing this PR. If you are still interested, please feel
    free to open a new PR (or ping us to reopen this one)
```

  type checker is not implementing [the typing spec](https://typing.readthedocs.io/en/latest/spec/index.html)).
- A dependency on a typing PEP that is still under consideration.
- A pending change in a related project, such as stub-uploader.

PRs should only be marked as "deferred" if there is a clear path towards getting
the blocking issue resolved within a reasonable time frame. If a PR depends on
a more amorphous change, such as a type system change that has not yet reached
the PEP stage, it should instead be closed.

Maintainers who add the "deferred" label should state clearly what exactly the
blocker is, usually with a link to an open issue in another project.

### Closing stale PRs

To keep the number of open PRs manageable, we may close PRs when they have been
open for too long. Specifically, we close open PRs that either have failures in CI,
serious merge conflicts or unaddressed feedback, and that have not seen any
activity in three months.

We want to maintain a welcoming atmosphere for contributors, so use a friendly
message when closing the PR. Example message:

    Thanks for contributing! I'm closing this PR for now, because it still

>     (fails some tests OR has unresolved review feedback OR has a merge conflict) after three months of inactivity.
>     If you are still interested, please feel free to open a new PR (or ping us to reopen this one).

Reviewer 3: Nit: Let's wrap long lines.
```suggestion
    (fails some tests OR has unresolved review feedback OR has a merge conflict)
    after three months of inactivity. If you are still interested, please feel free to open
    a new PR (or ping us to reopen this one).
```

Reviewer: > (My last commit only wraps long lines. It doesn't change the wording.)

It does, however, change the line-wrapping by adding forced word-break locations. If this is a block of text that we intend on copy-pasting, may has well save the maintainer from having to fix word wrapping, independent of line-length in the .md file.

Not a blocker, just a nitpick/opinion that this may be a special case.

  It should be valid Markdown, be comprehensive, read like a changelog entry,
  and assume that the reader has no access to the diff.
* Delete branches for merged PRs (by maintainers pushing to the main repo).

### Marking PRs as "deferred"

We sometimes use the ["deferred" label](https://github.com/python/typeshed/labels/deferred)
to mark PRs and issues that we'd like to accept, but that are blocked by some
external factor. Blockers can include:

- An unambiguous bug in a type checker (i.e., a case where the
  type checker is not implementing [the typing spec](https://typing.readthedocs.io/en/latest/spec/index.html)).
- A dependency on a typing PEP that is still under consideration.

> - A pending change in a related project, such as stub-uploader.

Reviewer: This reminds me of the [implementation-pending](https://github.com/python/typeshed/labels/implementation-pending) label. How should that interact with this policy and the "deferred" label?

Reviewer 2: probably we don't really need both labels -- we could probably merge them into one :)

Reviewer 4: We have too many labels anyway. They could use a good cleanup. But I agree that merging implementation-pending into deferred seems like an easy first step.

Reviewer 2: the `project` and `project-discussion` labels could also probably be merged

Author: I guess the idea of "implementation-pending" is that we're specifically waiting for a third-party library we're stubbing to release their implementation. That's maybe a little different from "deferred", but not sure it's worth a separate label.

PRs should only be marked as "deferred" if there is a clear path towards getting
the blocking issue resolved within a reasonable time frame. If a PR depends on
a more amorphous change, such as a type system change that has not yet reached
the PEP stage, it should instead be closed.

Maintainers who add the "deferred" label should state clearly what exactly the
blocker is, usually with a link to an open issue in another project.

### Closing stale PRs

To keep the number of open PRs manageable, we may close PRs when they have been
open for too long. Specifically, we close open PRs that either have failures in CI,
serious merge conflicts or unaddressed feedback, and that have not seen any
activity in three months.

We want to maintain a welcoming atmosphere for contributors, so use a friendly
message when closing the PR. Example message:

>     Thanks for your contribution to typeshed! Unfortunately, this PR still
>     has some unresolved problems and has not seen activity for three months.
>     Therefore, I am closing this PR. If you are still interested, please feel
>     free to open a new PR (or ping us to reopen this one)

Author: ```suggestion
    Thanks for your contribution to typeshed! Unfortunately, this PR still
    (fails some tests OR has unresolved review feedback OR has a merge conflict) after three months of inactivity.
    Therefore, I am closing this PR. If you are still interested, please feel
    free to open a new PR (or ping us to reopen this one)
```
@Akuli how is this? Sorry your previous suggestion no longer applies because I accepted another change.

Reviewer 3: It is better, but the `Thanks ...! Unfortunately ... Therefore ...` structure still feels a bit too formal to me. Maybe it's just me.

Reviewer 3: Maybe:
```suggestion
    Thanks for contributing! I'm closing this PR for now, because it still
    (fails some tests OR has unresolved review feedback OR has a merge conflict) after three months of inactivity.
    If you are still interested, please feel
    free to open a new PR (or ping us to reopen this one)
```

Reviewer 2: Akuli's suggestion looks like a nice improvement to me too (though I'm also okay with the current wording)

Reviewer 4: Missing period at the end of the sentence, but sounds good to me. I like that you have to choose the exact reason.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Maybe:
```suggestion
    Thanks for contributing! I'm closing this PR for now, because it still
    (fails some tests OR has unresolved review feedback OR has a merge conflict) after three months of inactivity.
    If you are still interested, please feel free to open a new PR (or ping us to reopen this one).
``````

>     (fails some tests OR has unresolved review feedback OR has a merge conflict)
>     after three months of inactivity. If you are still interested, please feel free to open
>     a new PR (or ping us to reopen this one).

Reviewer: Nitpick: one needs to be filled in, but the other is part of the comment. Maybe something like this?
```suggestion
    <fails some tests OR has unresolved review feedback OR has a merge conflict>
    after three months of inactivity. If you are still interested, please feel free to open
    a new PR (or ping us to reopen this one).
```

Also TIL you can make a text code block in md just by using indents
